# # Research Based Heart Disease Prediction Model Using Ensemble Learning

Heart related diseases are considered to be quite common these days because of the changing lifestyle. More and more people are being affected by some or the other heart condition every year all around the world and this rate keeps on increasing. Various machine learning techniques are being implemented to deal with heart diseases because of their better performance and ability of understanding the relations between various input and output features when compared to an experienced physician or doctor. These input features usually involve the values of various tests done on an individual. Many classification, clustering and deep learning algorithms are being implemented by researchers all around the world, but after looking at the increase in the rate of heart diseases every year some more unexplored methods should be implemented along with the application of few techniques so as to enhance the results on the existing classification algorithms. In this project, a new method of majority voting ensemble learning has been developed to identify the presence or absence of heart disease in an individual.  In ensemble learning various classification algorithms are combined to form a more powerful and an accurate algorithm.  In the present work, various machine learning classification algorithms along with the application of k-fold cross validation and hyperparameter tuning have been used. The algorithms such as Logistic Regression (LR), Naïve Bayes (NB), Decision Tree (DT), Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Xtreme Gradient Boosting Machine (XGBM), Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LGBM) and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) have been used. Each algorithm was individually implemented on the dataset and based on the evaluated parameters for all of the algorithms, two ensembles were formed by combining the best algorithms. The constructed ensembles are, Ensemble 1 consisting of SVM and LR and Ensemble 2 consisting of NBC, RF, SVM and LGBM with an accuracy of 88.33% in both the ensembles. Other parameters like Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive Predictive Value (PPV) and Negative Predictive Value (NPV) were also evaluated for every model.
